1. Eclipse

Eclipse contains a base workspace and an extensible plug-in system for customizing the environment. Written mostly in Java, Eclipse can be used to develop applications. By means of various plug-ins, Eclipse may also be used to develop applications in other programming languages: Ada, ABAP, C, C++, COBOL, Fortran, Haskell, JavaScript, Lasso, Natural, Perl, PHP, Prolog, Python, R, Ruby (including Ruby on Rails framework), Scala, Clojure, Groovy, Scheme, and Erlang. It can also be used to develop packages for the software Mathematica. Development environments include the Eclipse Java development tools (JDT) for Java and Scala, Eclipse CDT for C/C++ and Eclipse PDT for PHP, among others.

2.NetBeans

NetBeans is an integrated development environment (IDE) for developing primarily with Java, but also with other languages, in particular PHP, C/C++, and HTML5. It is also an application platform framework for Java desktop applications and others. The NetBeans IDE is written in Java and can run on Windows, OS X, Linux, Solaris and other platforms supporting a compatible JVM. The NetBeans Platform allows applications to be developed from a set of modular software components called modules. Applications based on the NetBeans Platform (including the NetBeans IDE itself) can be extended by third party developers.

3.Code::Blocks

Code::Blocks is a free, open source cross-platform IDE which supports multiple compilers including GCC, Clang and Visual C++. It is developed in C++ using wxWidgets as the GUI toolkit. Using a plugin architecture, its capabilities and features are defined by the provided plugins. Currently, Code::Blocks is oriented towards C, C++, and Fortran.

4.Xcode

Xcode is an integrated development environment (IDE) containing a suite of software development tools developed by Apple for developing software for OS X and iOS. First released in 2003, the latest stable release is version 6.1 and is available via the Mac App Store free of charge for Mac OS X Lion, OS X Mountain Lion, OS X Mavericks and OS X Yosemite users.

5. Microsoft Visual Studio

Microsoft Visual Studio is an integrated development environment (IDE) from Microsoft. 
It is used to develop computer programs for Microsoft Windows, as well as web sites, web applications and web services. 
Visual Studio uses Microsoft software development platforms such as Windows API, Windows Forms, 
Windows Presentation Foundation, Windows Store and Microsoft Silverlight. It can produce both native code and managed code.
